Finally, we will analyze
the impact of rotation
on profitability.
It is very important that we understand
this, I think it will help us understand
many things.
Now, let’s go to the formula.
Remember that ROA, which is the
return on the asset, on the
total investment made,
regardless of how we have funded
ourselves, is equal to the
net profit divided between
the asset.
This is how much we have gained
from the investment we have made.
Well, the ROA depends
mainly on two leverages.
It depends on the margin and depends on the rotation.
It is the same as the rotation.
That is, it is equal to the profit
we get from each of the monetary
units we have sold, how
much it becomes a profit,
and we multiply it by the
sales we are able to generate
from that asset, from that
investment.
This is very well seen when in the
formula what we do is to eliminate
the effect on the numberer and on
the denominator of sales, because
we are directly left with the ROA
formula, which is profit divided between
the total asset.
What we’re going to do is
look at two very different
in terms of rotation.
They are two retail.
What happens is that one has a very
low turnover of assets, like a jewelry
store.
That is, it takes a long time from the
time a jewel enters the store until
it is sold, from the time that these
inventories are purchased until they
are sold.
And we will compare it to a model
with a very high rotation, because
they are perishable products
like a fruit store.
And what we’re going to do is analyze
the numbers in detail from a series
of assumptions.
Here is a table I created
with the numbers of the two.
In both cases, the markup is
three, i.e. they multiply by
three the purchase price of
the jewelry or fruit and there
you have the sale price to
the public.
In the case of sales, it is a supposition.
Let’s think this jewelry sells
a million dollars and the fruit
shop sells 200,000.
However, the size does not affect
profitability in this case.
That is, there may be jewelry stores
that sell a lot more and many actually
sell a lot more and the fruit stores
will usually have a smaller business
volume, but it is not the matter
now, because it will give
the same for the calculation
of profitability.
The net margin in both cases is
50%.
This is not disqualified.
That is, at the end of all
sales the net profit that is
generated is 50% on sales,
right?
So we already have the net
profit that in one case is half a
million dollars and in another case
is 100,000 dollars.
But here comes the differences.
Let’s think about the rotation.
The rotation of a jewelry.
How many days or how long does it take
from the time a jewel enters until it
is sold on average?
Let us consider that three months.
It can be high or low depending
on a lot of things.
But it is a supposition.
And in the case of the fruit shop, we
will exaggerate it, because it is not
really that high the rotation,
but we will consider that all the
goods that come into rotation every day.
In other words, they buy the fruit and
the asset.
Let us consider here the total
asset, although we actually
did so only with stocks.
In the case of jewelry, it is four.
In the course of the year,
the asset is sold four
times.
The total of the asset per four
is equal to sales.
In the case of fruit is the
rotation is 365 days.
Every day, we buy
and sell all the fruit.
And what we have done from here
is to calculate the asset.
Calculate the investment we have
to make for a jewelry store that
sells a million dollars a year.
The rotation is four times
a year.
Over the course of the year, the assets
turn into sales four times.
What investment should
we make?
What is the average asset we
have to have in the jewelry?
of 250,000 dollars.
A considerable amount.
In the case of the fruit industry,
what is the investment we need to make?
Look, it’s just the fruit you have
to buy every day, because
you sell it every day.
The asset is $550.
The difference here is already huge.
Therefore, the ROA, be careful, the
ROA is the net profit between the total
of the asset.
The roof of the jewelry is two.
The ROA of the fruit store is 182.
It is true that here in this case
you say, no, it is that the
jewellery gets a very small fruitry
of $100,000.
What would you prefer to have?
A jewelry or five fruits?
The answer is very simple.
I would prefer to have five jewellery
shops because the return I’m going
to get on my investment is
infinitely higher.
Why is?
This is because the rotation of the
asset is much larger.
I think that from here we can already
understand what the enormous implication
that the rotation of the asset has
in the profitability and investment
that is made.